# YOUTUBE-COMMENT-SENTIMENT-ANALYSIS-USING-NLP

YouTube is one of the most familiar social media platforms across the world. Many content creators upload their videos on their YouTube channel. The user has left numerous comments on those videos. They may be positive, negative, or neutral. 
Sentiment analysis is the process of determining whether a block of text is positive, negative, or, neutral. Sentiment analysis is the contextual mining of words that indicates the social sentiment of a brand and also helps the business determine whether the product that they are manufacturing is going to make a demand in the market or not. The goal that sentiment analysis tries to achieve is to analyze people’s opinions in a way that can help businesses expand. It focuses not only on polarity (positive, negative and neutral) but also on emotions (happy, sad, angry, etc.). It uses various Natural Language Processing algorithms such as rule-based, automatic, and hybrid.
The comments of a YouTube video are collected by using the video URL with the help of the youtube_comment_scraper_python library, which is a special library to scrape the comments of the YouTube video. The collected data is analyzed and pre-processed. To determine the sentiment of the comments, the preprocessed data is fed into the SentimentIntensityAnalyzer and SentiWordNet text analysis algorithms available in the NLTK toolkit. The result is bar charts that visually depict the classified comment counts by positivity, negativity, and neutrality. The comments are categorized based on the relevant criteria.
